Update account docs (#709)
OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/accounts.adoc

:test-signers: https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/blob/release-v0.6.1/tests/signers.py
:snip-5: https://github.com/starknet-io/SNIPs/blob/main/SNIPS/snip-5.md
:snip-6: https://github.com/ericnordelo/SNIPs/blob/feat/standard-account/SNIPS/snip-6.md

= Accounts

> Unlike Ethereum where accounts are directly derived from a private key, there's no native account concept on StarkNet.

Author: I think we can add a TIP, or a WARNING for this somehow, I will think of it.

> Unlike Ethereum where accounts are directly derived from a private key, there's no native account concept on StarkNet.

Reviewer: +1

> Instead, the L2 features native account abstraction, and signature validation has to be done at the contract level. To relieve smart contract applications such as ERC20 tokens or exchanges from this responsibility, we make use of Account contracts to deal with transaction authentication.

Author: >I'd switch this Starknet because there's no ref to L2

I didn't want to use Starknet because the previous sentence (two words before) ends with Starknet. Agree L2 is perhaps not the best approach, what do you think of "Instead, it features..."?

> Instead, the L2 features native account abstraction, and signature validation has to be done at the contract level. To relieve smart contract applications such as ERC20 tokens or exchanges from this responsibility, we make use of Account contracts to deal with transaction authentication.

Author: >And it's a small pet peeve of mine, but I vote for putting sentences on their own line so editing/referencing isn't so noisy. Same goes for the whole PR

I will update accordingly

> Instead, the L2 features native account abstraction, and signature validation has to be done at the contract level. To relieve smart contract applications such as ERC20 tokens or exchanges from this responsibility, we make use of Account contracts to deal with transaction authentication.

Reviewer 2: > I didn't want to use Starknet because the previous sentence (two words before) ends with Starknet. Agree L2 is perhaps not the best approach, what do you think of "Instead, it features..."?

Sounds good to me

> Instead, the L2 features native account abstraction, and signature validation has to be done at the contract level. To relieve smart contract applications such as ERC20 tokens or exchanges from this responsibility, we make use of Account contracts to deal with transaction authentication.

Author: I used "the network" at last, wdyt?

> Instead, the L2 features native account abstraction, and signature validation has to be done at the contract level. To relieve smart contract applications such as ERC20 tokens or exchanges from this responsibility, we make use of Account contracts to deal with transaction authentication.

Reviewer 2: Even better 👍

For a general overview of the account abstraction, see StarkWare's https://medium.com/starkware/starknet-alpha-0-10-0-923007290470[StarkNet Alpha 0.10].
A more detailed discussion on the topic can be found in https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-account-abstraction-model-part-1/781[StarkNet Account Abstraction Part 1].

TIP: For detailed information on the usage and implementation check the xref:/api/account.adoc[API Reference] section.

> 

Reviewer 2: 👍

== Table of Contents

* <<basic_account,Basic Account>>
** <<account_entrypoints,Account entrypoints>>
** <<interface,Interface>>
* <<standard_account_interface,Standard Account Interface>>
** <<isrc6_interface,ISRC6 Interface>>
** <<isrc5_interface,ISRC5 Interface>>

> * <<deploying_an_account,Deploying an Account>>

Reviewer 2: After refactoring the erc20 docs, I'm thinking we probably don't need a ToC anymore since it just mirrors the sections in the right column. What do you think?

Author: I'm leaning towards removing it as well. Let's wait for @martriay opinion regarding this anyway.

== Basic Account

As we mentioned, Accounts in Starknet are smart contracts, and so they can be deployed and interacted with like any other contract, and can be extended to implement any custom logic. However, the Account is a special type of contract that is used to validate and execute transactions, and there are a set of entrypoints that must be implemented for enabling these features.

=== Account entrypoints

The first two following methods are protocol-level enforced functions that must be implemented by any Account contract. The third one is optional and can be used for enabling declarations.

1. `\\__validate__` verifies the validity of the transaction to be executed. Is usually used to validate signatures, but following the account abstraction design, the entrypoint implementation can be customized to feature any different validation mechanism.

2. `\\__execute__` executes the transaction if the validation is successful.

> 3. `\\__validate_declare__` Optional entrypoint similar to \\__validate__ but for transactions meant to declare other contracts.

Author: In my thinking, validate declare is optional but is still part of the basic functionalities of an account, that's why I left it here, mentioning that is optional. validate deploy in the other hand, is not a basic account functionality, it is a workaround for deploying contracts (mostly accounts but don't have to), and that's why I like that more to be in the counterfactual deployment section. I rather to keep it this way, but open to updating it if you think is worth it ofc.

= Accounts

Unlike Ethereum where accounts are derived from a private key, all Starknet accounts are contracts. This means there's no Externally Owned Account (EOA)
concept on Starknet.

Instead, the network features native account abstraction and signature validation happens at the contract level.

For a general overview of the account abstraction, see
https://docs.starknet.io/documentation/architecture_and_concepts/Accounts/introduction/[Starknet's documentation].
A more detailed discussion on the topic can be found in
https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-account-abstraction-model-part-1/781[Starknet Shaman's forum].

TIP: For detailed information on the usage and implementation check the xref:/api/account.adoc[API Reference] section.

== Basic Account

As we mentioned, accounts in Starknet are smart contracts, and so they can be deployed and interacted
with like any other contract, and can be extended to implement any custom logic. However, accounts are a special type
of contract that are used to validate and execute transactions, for which they must implement a minimum set of functions.

=== Account methods

> The first two following methods are protocol-level enforced functions that must be implemented by any account contract.

Reviewer: > Or even dropping the intro paragraph and just include "protocol-enforced" in the function description

i think this might not be very clear on what it means. what about:

```suggestion
SRC6 standard account contracts must implement the following methods, the first two being enforced by the protocol.
```
or similar. it also addresses the discussed difference between "protocol minimal viable accounts" and standard ones

> The first two following methods are protocol-level enforced functions that must be implemented by any account contract.

Reviewer 2: > it also addresses the discussed difference between "protocol minimal viable accounts" and standard ones

Yes, much better!

To relieve smart contract applications such as ERC20 tokens or exchanges from this responsibility,
we make use of Account contracts to deal with transaction authentication.

For a general overview of the account abstraction, see StarkWare's
https://medium.com/starkware/starknet-alpha-0-10-0-923007290470[StarkNet Alpha 0.10].
A more detailed discussion on the topic can be found in
https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-account-abstraction-model-part-1/781[StarkNet Account Abstraction Part 1].

TIP: For detailed information on the usage and implementation check the xref:/api/account.adoc[API Reference] section.

== Table of Contents

* <<basic_account,Basic Account>>
** <<account_entrypoints,Account entrypoints>>
** <<interface,Interface>>
* <<standard_account_interface,Standard Account Interface>>
** <<isrc6_interface,ISRC6 Interface>>
** <<isrc5_interface,ISRC5 Interface>>
* <<deploying_an_account,Deploying an Account>>

== Basic Account

As we mentioned, Accounts in Starknet are smart contracts, and so they can be deployed and interacted
with like any other contract, and can be extended to implement any custom logic. However, the Account is a special

> type of contract that is used to validate and execute transactions, and there are a set of entrypoints

Author: Both are entrypoints. They work together, but they are used separately. validate can even write to storage by itself.

> type of contract that is used to validate and execute transactions, and there are a set of entrypoints

Reviewer: they're not really used separately. users call `__execute__` and that triggers `__validate__` underneath, making `__execute__` the sole entrypoint. can `__validate__` be called independently? what is the purpose/advantage of calling it entrypoint instead of function?

in any case this is a very small detail, no need to spend too much time with it.

> type of contract that is used to validate and execute transactions, and there are a set of entrypoints

Reviewer: i guess what i didn't see is the purpose/advantage of calling it entrypoint instead of function, hence my suggestion.

are they used separately though? i think users call `__execute__` which triggers `__validate__` underneath, making `__execute__` the sole entrypoint. or can `__validate__` be called independently and with a real purpose?

> type of contract that is used to validate and execute transactions, and there are a set of entrypoints

Author: Validate can be called independently, not sure what you mean by real purpose. If the issue is with the word entrypoint in this context, I guess we need to define then what are we calling entrypoint. I'm using the word basically because it is what I recall the Starknet doc was using, and to me, it made sense (they are entrypoints for the sequencer to use depending on the context).

> that must be implemented for enabling these features.

Author: With the suggestion, the sentence remains incomplete. Which part are you suggesting to remove?

> that must be implemented for enabling these features.

Author: The next comment answers this already.

> === Account entrypoints

Author: I still have mixed feelings regarding this, because:

> (e.g. ppl thinking implementing just these methods makes up for a valid, minimal account)

They d make up for a valid, minimal account, and [the interface presented in corelib](https://github.com/starkware-libs/cairo/blob/main/corelib/src/starknet/account.cairo#L11) is still not the SRC6 one.

I understand the idea of standardization, but presenting SRC6 as the minimum valid account, still feels strange to me. We can have a minimum account, and then have SRC6, with no further theoretical issues imo.

> === Account entrypoints

Reviewer: Agree. "basic account" should account for that -- we're not saying it's the bare minimum physically possible account, just that it makes up for a _basic_ one. Although such minimal an account is possible, I still believe our library should opinionatedly encourage and present SRC6 as the canonical way of implementing an account -- we make a library of standars.

> === Account entrypoints

Author: Updated! Lmk what you think.

= Accounts

Unlike Ethereum where accounts are derived from a private key, all Starknet accounts are contracts. This means there's no Externally Owned Account (EOA)
concept on Starknet.

Instead, the network features native account abstraction and signature validation happens at the contract level.

For a general overview of the account abstraction, see
https://docs.starknet.io/documentation/architecture_and_concepts/Accounts/introduction/[Starknet's documentation].
A more detailed discussion on the topic can be found in
https://community.starknet.io/t/starknet-account-abstraction-model-part-1/781[Starknet Shaman's forum].

TIP: For detailed information on the usage and implementation check the xref:/api/account.adoc[API Reference] section.

== Basic Account

> As we mentioned, accounts in Starknet are smart contracts, and so they can be deployed and interacted

Reviewer: following up on our [_basic account_ discussion](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/pull/709#discussion_r1311114516), we should link to SNIP-6 as early as in this section

> As we mentioned, accounts in Starknet are smart contracts, and so they can be deployed and interacted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As previously mentioned, accounts in Starknet are smart contracts and so they can be deployed and interacted
```
maybe later we can formalize our writing style, there's too many "we" in these docs not sure if it's worth removing them all right now. i do stand by the small copy change.

Author: What do you mean by small copy change?

> A counterfactual contract is a contract we can interact with even before actually deploying it on-chain.
For example, we can send funds

In this example, how should we (both) be replaced?

Reviewer: > What do you mean by small copy change?

i mean changing the text (we -> previously)

>

> As we mentioned, accounts in Starknet are smart contracts, and so they can be deployed and interacted

Reviewer: following up on our [_basic account_ discussion](https://github.com/OpenZeppelin/cairo-contracts/pull/709#discussion_r1311114516), we should link to SNIP-6 as early as in this section

with like any other contract, and can be extended to implement any custom logic. However, accounts are a special type

> of contract that are used to validate and execute transactions, for which they must implement a minimum set of functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of contract that is used to validate and execute transactions, for which they must implement a minimum set of functions.
```

Even though these interfaces are not enforced by the protocol, it's recommended to implement them for enabling
interoperability with the ecosystem.

== Protocol-level methods

In this section we will describe the methods that the protocol uses for abstracting the accounts. The first two
are required for enabling accounts to be used for executing transactions. The rest are optional:

> 1. `\\__validate__` verifies the validity of the transaction to be executed. This is usually used to validate signatures,
> but following the account abstraction design, the entrypoint implementation can be customized to feature any
> validation mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `\\__validate__` verifies the validity of the transaction to be executed. This is usually used to validate signatures,
but the entrypoint implementation can be customized to feature any validation mechanism https://docs.starknet.io/documentation/architecture_and_concepts/Accounts/validate_and_execute/#validate_limitations[with some limitations].
```

2. `\\__execute__` executes the transaction if the validation is successful.

3. `\\__validate_declare__` optional entrypoint similar to `\\__validate__` but for transactions
meant to declare other contracts.

4. `\\__validate_deploy__` optional entrypoint similar to `\\__validate__` but meant for {counterfactual}.

NOTE: Even though these entrypoints _can_ be called directly at the contract level, they are not designed for that,

> but to be called by the Starknet OS in the transaction execution flow.

Reviewer: i'm not sure how i feel about this note, it feels like a warning. although it's true they were "not designed for that", i kind of look forward experimentation. for example, contracts calling an account's `__execute__`

Author: Are you proposing to remove it? My intention was to mention that they are meant to be called by the protocol, not that you can't use them in experimentation.

Reviewer: the "not designed for" sounds feels like a warning/deterrent to me. I'd probably change the wording more like 

> NOTE: Although these entrypoints are available to the protocol for its regular transaction flow, they can also be called like any other method."
